The Tower
2d, retro dungeon crawler, player ascends floors
turn based rpg combat
no levels, player gets new weapon w / stat boost upon completion of floor boss

character stats are as follows
hp: current health
mp: current ether
maxhp: max hp
maxmp: maximum mp
bravery: affects the character's ability to deal / recieve physical damage
faith: affects the character's ability to deal / recieve ethereal damage
luck: affects the liklyhood of a faithfull strike

all stats have a base value of ten. gifts get + five, flaws get -5. 

paths
path of the vagrant
gift of luck, flaw of faith

path of the acursed
gift of faith, flaw of luck

path of the conquerer
gift of bravery, flaw of luck

combat
turn based, at beginning of each turn, player can choose between, advance (rock), guard (paper), and break (scissors). the enemy will do the same, and enemies follow a 
predetermined pattern when selecting commands. upon choosing, the game will compare the two choosen commands. directly after, the player and enemy will be presented 
with a new set of commands. the victor can;
attack: deal physical damage based on bravery
cast: deal ethereal damage based on faith
focus: restore mp
item: restore hp, consume one item 
the loser, however, can only focus, or use an item. this process is repeated until the player or enemy runs out of hp. it is important to note that regular enemies 
will give a hint as to what command they will choose before executing, however the hint will be different for each enemy. bosses will follow a secret order. you must 
find the key that reveals the order in which they select commands and memorize it. 

combat flow chart
load enemy file
initialize enemy
process new battle
"______ emerged!"
loop:
exit when enemy or player's hp hits 0
give player choice between rock, paper, or scissors
enemy makes random choice, shows hint at what it chooses
compare enemy choice to player choice
if player wins:
player chooses between attacking, casting, focusing, or using an item
if player looses: 
enemy attacks; player can heal or focus
end loop